So let us get started then
with building our website.
And so just briefly here, if you click on
here in the chapter listing from the home
page, if you click on prerequisites,
this is going to talk a little
bit about the technology.
I've talked to you about
most of this before.
I've given you some points about how you
might customize this website for yourself.
Again, sort of the baseline knowledge that
I expect you to have coming into this
course is what you would get out of
the front-end master's boot camp.
And that was something that I recorded
with Brian Holt several years ago now,
but what you would have learned
there is still absolutely relevant,
especially in the HTML and CSS space, and
that would give you a baseline of HTML and
CSS coming into this.
In terms of technology,
we're gonna be working in, as I mentioned,
VS Code, which is a free code editor.
We can talk about that in a little while,
if you wanna use something else, yeah,
that's totally fine as well and
we're gonna be using CodePen.
The way we start building websites
these days is we start with a so
called style guide.
These style guides may be super
complicated if you are building a really
big meaty website for a major corporation,
in our case this is going
to be rather lightweight.
We wanna set up some basic
styling that's in place.
We're going to set up things
like colors and fonts and
font sizes and maybe some base
styling on some of our HTML elements.
So that is where we're going to start,
you will find here a link
to the beginning CodePen.
If you click on that, this will
open the CodePen in another window.
Hopefully you have a CodePen account,
if not,
you may wanna take a moment to sign up for
this.
What you can do down here at
the very bottom of the page,
there is a button down here in the very,
very lower right corner that says fork,
and that you can then fork this
particular code pen into your account.
That makes your very own copy of it so
that you can make changes
to this particular page.
As you see here across the top,
we have HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript that you can write
here inside of CodePen.
This is not my preferred arrangement for
CodePen.
I generally like to put the code
on the left side of the page.
And if you're like me,
you can change this layout as well.
You gonna go to the thing
up here in the upper right,
it looks kind of like a cupcake.
It says change view, where I'm going
to click on the left side here.
So the cupcake flipped over on its side
and I just find this easier to look at,
I can see my webpage better.
And the other nice part is that I can
grab my bar here in the middle and
make my screen larger and smaller.
As we get into the responsive side
of things, that'll be important.
>> When should I use raw CSS and when
should I reach for a framework or library?
>> When should you use raw CSS?
For every single website you build.
Anybody else want more opinions?
[LAUGH] I am not a fan of Tailwind,
I am really not a fan of Bootstrap.
Particularly, I'm not a fan of Tailwind.
I think Tailwind gets rid of the most
important parts of CSS notably
the cascading inheritance, which you
can take massive advantage of when
the building websites and
Tailwind gets rid of all of that.
So to me Tailwind is like me coding
with one hand tied behind my back.
So I don't recommend any of
those particular frameworks.
Back in the day I used to
do more with Bootstrap.
Bootstrap was helpful back before
we had two great tools for layout.
Now we have Flexbox and grid and you
can join me in my course on Flexbox and
grid right here at front-end masters.
Once you understand how Flexbox and
grid work, you don't need
any of these CSS frameworks in order
to write those particular layouts.
So that is my opinion on
that particular item.
>> And I'll just add to it, I'm not
refuting anything what you're saying.
I'm just saying in a professional context,
your team might choose to use Tailwind,
they might choose to use whatever.
And having that foundational
knowledge is going to help you,
no matter what tool or framework,
even if you do find yourself in
a bootstrap situation cuz there's
plenty of websites built with that,
or whatever, Tailwind or whatever,
the framework of the day.
So yeah,
having a foundation is the key to being
successful in any type of
situation you're thrown into.
>> And that is absolutely true.
What Mark is saying is that the key
here being the framework of the day.
So I know a lot of you wind
up learning some framework.
Well, my framework would have been
macromedia dream weever three when I
started out.
Guess how much good that's doing me today.
Zero, and you know what?
Tailwind may seem like it's inevitable and
it'll be here forever, but
I promise you what's gonna die one day.
And when it does,
what are you going to do?
If you know the fundamentals, always, if
you know the fundamentals of HTML, CSS and
JavaScript, you can learn any
framework that comes along.
So that is why we are here today and
learn the fundamentals of HTML and CSS.
>> If one were to build a website entirely
on their own, what would be the advantages
of having a style guide even when
you are solo or with a small team.
>> Yeah, so one of the nice things about
starting with a style guide is that this
is going to give you kind of your baseline
settings for the rest of the website.
So again, because we've set
up here's our base colors,
our base spots are base styles for
the website.
We wind up doing a ton less work later
because we're gonna leverage inheritance
and the cascade here in CSS from our
base into later portions of our design.
We don't have to keep writing
the same code over and over again.
That is why we start off with a base,
even if you're building a website
using Only HTML and CSS.
It's still extremely helpful to
have those base settings in place.
>> Do you recommend using VS code or
an editor on your local machine, or
are we gonna focus on CodePen
throughout the entire day or should we?
>> Okay, so, the methodology that I'm
going to use here is I think better for
beginning students.
If you are really into code you already
have like all of the command line things
all set up and
all the GitHub things set up and
all the rest of the tools that you
people use for building websites,
you absolutely can start and use all of
those with VS code, no problem at all.
But if you are starting
as a beginning beginner,
if you don't have a whole lot of
experience in working with code,
I find that code pen is such a great
tool for starting out because we
can write our code, see the effect
on the webpage immediately here.
And what you'll see us do over the course
of today, is that we're gonna take our
design, we're gonna break each one of
those sections into an independent
problem here in CodePen and solve for
each one of those sections independently.
So we'll wind up with
a whole bunch of CodePens.
Then in chapter six,
we'll take each of those sections and
we'll combine them in VS
code into a single webpage.
So, the idea here is to demonstrate
how you can take what seems to be
a mind-blowingly huge problem,
how the heck am I gonna code this webpage?
How you can break it down into very small
pieces, how you can solve for each of
those small pieces, then reassemble
those into a full webpage later.
And that is the the pedagogy
behind what I'm doing today.